[EX-2743] Add global lift documentation (#37066)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/experiments/global_lift.md

---
title: Global Lift
description: Understand how an experiment affects your metric totals across your entire user population.
aliases:
  - /product_analytics/experimentation/global_lift/
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-product-analytics/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Make data-driven design decisions with Product Analytics"
- link: "/experiments/reading_results/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Reading Experiment Results"
- link: "/experiments/defining_metrics/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Create Experiment Metrics"
---

## Overview

> Experiments typically enroll only a subset of your users. Global lift answers the question: if you rolled this change out to all eligible users, how would your overall metric totals change?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Experiments typically enroll only a subset of your users. Global lift answers the question: if you released this change out to all eligible users, how would your overall metric totals change?
```

For example, if an experiment shows a 10% lift in revenue per user but the experiment's eligible population accounts for only 20% of your total revenue, the estimated impact on global revenue is approximately 2%. This is useful when deciding whether to ship a change: a treatment that looks impressive within an experiment may have a smaller impact on business-level totals if it applies to a narrow audience.

Datadog reports global lift alongside _coverage_, a factor that quantifies how much of your overall metric value comes from the eligible population. Global lift is the product of coverage and the experiment's observed (local) lift.

## User populations

Every experiment divides your user base into three groups:

| Population | Description |
|---|---|

> | **Ineligible** | Users who were never eligible (wrong page, targeting criteria not met, and so on). Their behavior is not affected by any rollout decision. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Ineligible** | Users who were never eligible (wrong page, targeting criteria not met, or other eligibility conditions). Their behavior is not affected by any rollout decision. |
```

| **Eligible, not enrolled** | Users who met the eligibility criteria but were excluded due to traffic exposure settings. |
| **Enrolled** | Users assigned to the treatment or control variant. |

> Global lift focuses on the eligible population—enrolled users plus users who were eligible but not enrolled—and estimates the metric impact if that population were entirely switched from control to treatment. If the treatment were fully released, the eligible population captures all users who would interact with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Global lift focuses on the eligible population—enrolled users plus users who were eligible but not enrolled—and estimates the metric impact if that population were entirely switched from control to treatment. If the treatment were fully released, the eligible population would capture all users who would interact with it.
```

## Coverage

> Coverage is the estimated proportion of your global metric total that would come from the eligible population if the control experience were rolled out to all eligible users. Formally:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Coverage is the estimated proportion of your global metric total that would come from the eligible population if the control experience were rolled out to all eligible users. The formula is:
```

  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Create Experiment Metrics"
---

## Overview

Experiments typically enroll only a subset of your users. Global lift answers the question: if you rolled this change out to all eligible users, how would your overall metric totals change?

For example, if an experiment shows a 10% lift in revenue per user but the experiment's eligible population accounts for only 20% of your total revenue, the estimated impact on global revenue is approximately 2%. This is useful when deciding whether to ship a change: a treatment that looks impressive within an experiment may have a smaller impact on business-level totals if it applies to a narrow audience.

Datadog reports global lift alongside _coverage_, a factor that quantifies how much of your overall metric value comes from the eligible population. Global lift is the product of coverage and the experiment's observed (local) lift.

## User populations

Every experiment divides your user base into three groups:

| Population | Description |
|---|---|
| **Ineligible** | Users who were never eligible (wrong page, targeting criteria not met, and so on). Their behavior is not affected by any rollout decision. |

> | **Eligible, not enrolled** | Users who met the eligibility criteria but were excluded due to traffic exposure settings or mutual exclusion rules. |

Reviewer 2: > or mutual exclusion rules.

Do we have this yet? I wasn't aware of it

Author: I don't think so, this was from the Eppo docs but I can leave it out until we get there here.

| **Enrolled** | Users assigned to the treatment or control variant. |

> Global lift focuses on the eligible population—enrolled users plus users who were eligible but not enrolled—and estimates the metric impact if that population were entirely switched from control to treatment.

Reviewer 2: > eligible population—enrolled users plus users who were eligible but not enrolled

Might be good to say something like "If the treatment were fully released, the eligible population captures all users who would interact with it."
